At 8th Light, we use a unique process of actuating ideas, accepting the best and most efficient practices, and synthesizing those practices into an effectual and coherent method. Communication, quality, and innovation drive the decisions in this process, and the end goal is to produce impressive software for clients according to their specifications.

<sub_title>Values</sub_title>
Communication is a priority. We believe that working closely with the customer is the only way to ensure that a product is created in sync with both the customer’s vision and their desired outcome. Daily interactions with the customer are preferred, as is working on site. We create with the understanding that each finished product is the result of its own specific evolution, and that the software being written should constantly be subject to modifications of concept and conclusion. Each iteration produces more business value, as with each brush stroke the image on a canvas is further disclosed. At 8th Light, we employ a creative process that highlights cooperation and consideration, and we appreciate that this practice is the difference between good software and great software.

The quality of code in an application indicates many things; high-quality code makes your product easier to extend and maintain, as changes to the code are embraced by the framework and design. Moving fast becomes easier, and the customer is able to stay ahead of their competitors as well as adapt to changes quickly and efficiently.

Commitment, creativity, and innovation form the bridge between discipline and art at 8th Light. A customer once expressed to our team, “we hired you as problem solvers,” and this focus on innovation—the idea that problems extend beyond the technical realm of computer programming—is what continues to drive our professional attitude. We believe that innovation in software happens when one dives into the business domain, imaginatively solving those problems first, and then figures out how to write code after what they have learned there. When software developers allow themselves to think in an open and inspired manner, that originality and complexity of thought enables them to meaningfully connect the dots between business and implementation.